src/projects/kamchatka-vinyl/README.md, before:

# Kamchatka vinyl - vinyl re-issue of my first album

This vinyl record is a re-release of my first EP titled "Kamchatka". It was originally released in 2010 as a limited edition of 50 CDs as well as digital format. To mark its ten year anniversary I decided to re-release it on vinyl. All tracks were re-mastered by Emery in his Rotterdam studio and vinyls pressed in the Netherlands by [Triple Vision Distribution](https://triplevisiondigital.com/).

![Kamchatka Vinyl](https://tamulaitis.lt/images/kamchatka-vinyl/garo-kamchatka-ep-vinyl-horizontal.jpg)

The artwork for this release was created by an amazing artist [Asta Ostrovskaja](https://astaost.com/). It actually depicts the Saulėtekis neighborhood where I grew up in Vilnius, Lithuania.


## What's next?

I  want this vinyl to be available in as many physical record shops as possible. I find digging for records in a record shop a very unique experience and want to make it  possible for others to accidentally stumble upon my music.


## Where to buy?

The vinyl is available in record shops across Lithuania and the Netherlands, you can also order it online from [Bembis Bembio Motina Records](https://bembisbembiomotina.lt) website.


## Original version

Original version of the album was released in 2010 as a limited edition of 50 CDs as well as digital format. You can listen to the album on [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/3MFM6vUUTnfpY3vG2Wu7vI) or [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLonFfrVv0r_pC90Qxf9rMd2eSI12gVqkF), however these are the old versions. New remastered versions do not exist in the digital format and are only available on vinyl.

[Listen to Kamchatka EP on Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/3MFM6vUUTnfpY3vG2Wu7vI)


## Bonus material

This release also includes one bonus track that was not included in the original release. It is called "Celebration" and was made by me recording and scratching the samples from the old vinyl records and mixing them together. It was originally used for the promotional video of the initial release.

[![Watch original Kamchatka EP promotional video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/Xfbk_47v_1w/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xfbk_47v_1w)

[Watch original Kamchatka EP promotional video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xfbk_47v_1w#aspect_4_3)

The video used for this clip is from the Internet Archive and is in the public domain. As I was correctly schooled in the comments the people depicted in the video are not actually from Kamchatka region, they  are more likely to be native Alaskan (Inupiat) or natives of Chukotka (Chukchi, Siberian Yupik), based on the clothing and dancing styles.

This is v0.7 of this article. Coming soon: more details about pressing the vinyl, interesting facts about vinyl records, better photos of the vinyl and the cover.

Commit message:

Add better photos of Kamchatka Vinyl

src/projects/kamchatka-vinyl/README.md, after:

# Kamchatka vinyl - vinyl re-issue of my first album

This vinyl record is a re-release of my first EP titled "Kamchatka". It was originally released in 2010 as a limited edition of 50 CDs as well as digital format. To mark its ten year anniversary I decided to re-release it on vinyl. All tracks were re-mastered by Emery in his Rotterdam studio and vinyls pressed in the Netherlands by [Triple Vision Distribution](https://triplevisiondigital.com/).

![Kamchatka Vinyl](https://tamulaitis.lt/images/kamchatka-vinyl/garo-kamchatka-ep-vinyl.webp)

The artwork for this release was created by an amazing artist [Asta Ostrovskaja](https://astaost.com/). It was all hand painted on paper and then finished up and polished digitally. It depicts the Saulėtekis neighborhood where I grew up in Vilnius, Lithuania.

![Kamchatka Vinyl cover](https://tamulaitis.lt/images/kamchatka-vinyl/garo-kamchatka-ep-vinyl-cover.webp)

The vinyl came out in 2021 and is available at record stores across Netherlands and Lithuania or you can **[order it online via Bembis Bembio Motina Records website](https://bembisbembiomotina.lt)**.


## What's next?

I want this vinyl to be available in as many physical record shops across as many different countries as possible. I find digging for records in a record shops or markets a very unique experience and want to make it possible for others to accidentally stumble upon my music. If you are a record store owner or know somebody who would like to put Kamchatka EP record on their shelves don't hesitate to [contact me](mailto:giedrius@tamulaitis.lt).


## Original version

Original version of the album was released in 2010 as a limited edition of 50 CDs as well as digital format. You can listen to the album on [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/3MFM6vUUTnfpY3vG2Wu7vI) or [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLonFfrVv0r_pC90Qxf9rMd2eSI12gVqkF), however these are the old versions. New remastered versions do not exist in the digital format and are only available on vinyl.

[Listen to Kamchatka EP on Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/3MFM6vUUTnfpY3vG2Wu7vI)


## Bonus material

This release also includes one bonus track that was not included in the original release. It is called "Celebration" and was made by me recording and scratching the samples from the old vinyl records and mixing them together. It was originally used for the promotional video of the initial release.

[![Watch original Kamchatka EP promotional video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/Xfbk_47v_1w/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xfbk_47v_1w)

[Watch original Kamchatka EP promotional video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xfbk_47v_1w#aspect_4_3)

The video used for this clip is from the Internet Archive and is in the public domain. As I was correctly schooled in the comments the people depicted in the video are not actually from Kamchatka region, they  are more likely to be native Alaskan (Inupiat) or natives of Chukotka (Chukchi, Siberian Yupik), based on the clothing and dancing styles.

This is v0.8 of this article. Coming soon: more details about pressing the vinyl, interesting facts about vinyl records.
