src/templates/README.template.md, before:

# {{BRAND_NAME}}

Fusing the power of technology and the beauty of music, creating a harmonious blend of innovation and artistry.


## About me

As a musician, I have been honing my craft and making a name for myself in the industry. My unique blend of genres, including rock, pop, and electronic, creates a sound that is both fresh and familiar. I have a natural talent for writing catchy hooks and memorable melodies which has helped me to gain a dedicated fan base. I pride myself on my creative approach to music and my undeniable stage presence. I am determined to continue making waves in the industry and am excited for what the future holds.

Contact me at: [giedrius@tamulaitis.lt](mailto:giedrius@tamulaitis.lt)


## What is this?

This is a repository with info about my art and technology projects.


## How to use it?

Live version can be viewed at [https://tamulaitis.lt](https://tamulaitis.lt), you can also read markdown files here directly. It is also possible to clone this repository and [run the page locally](#running-locally) for whatever reason.


## Projects

### [Social Sequencer](src/projects/social-sequencer/README.md) - interactive music device
### [Shil](src/projects/shil/README.md) - video game with unique art style
### [Dialrhea](src/projects/dialrhea/README.md) - revolutionary shitty machine


## Running locally

1. Clone this repository
2. Install dependencies with `yarn`
3. Run `yarn run dev` to start the development server
4. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result

## Documentation
- [Creating animated videos for projects](docs/creating-videos.md)

Commit message:

Add script to auto-generate README.md

src/templates/README.template.md, after:

# {{MY_NAME}} - {{TAGLINE}}

{{WHO_I_AM}}


## About me

{{WHAT_I_DO}}

Contact me at: [{{CONTACT_EMAIL}}](mailto:{{CONTACT_EMAIL}})


## How to use the repo?

Live version is available at [{{SITE_URL}}]({{SITE_URL}}). You can also read markdown files directly in this repo, they are linked in [Projects](#projects) section below. It is also possible to clone this repository and [run the page locally](#running-locally) for whatever reason.


## Projects

### [Social Sequencer](src/projects/social-sequencer/README.md) - interactive music device
### [Shil](src/projects/shil/README.md) - video game with unique art style
### [Dialrhea](src/projects/dialrhea/README.md) - revolutionary shitty machine


## Running locally

1. Clone this repository
2. Install dependencies by executing `yarn`
3. Run `yarn run dev` to start the development server
4. Open address from console output in your browser


## Documentation
- [Creating animated videos for projects](docs/creating-videos.md)


> ***NOTE:*** This file is re-generated from [README.template.md](src/templates/README.template.md) file before every commit. It can manually be re-generated by running `yarn run generate:md`.
